---
layout: post
title: "CSS Font Properties"
---

### Font-family

The `font-family` CSS property allows for a prioritized list of font family names and/or generic family names to be specified for the selected element. Unlike most other CSS properties, values are separated by a comma to indicate that they are alternatives. The browser will select the first font on the list that is installed on the computer, or that can be downloaded.

You should always add at least one generic family in a font-family list, since there’s no guarantee that a specific font is installed on the computer or can be downloaded.

{% highlight CSS %}
body {
  font-family: Proxima-Nova, Helvetica, sans-serif;
}
p {
  font-family: Times, "Times New Roman", Georgia, serif;
}
{% endhighlight %}

Try it out!

### Font-Size

The `font-size` property allows you to set a font size for the text in your Element. There are different ways to set font-sizes that can get a little tricky, so let us only use the most simple technique for now (you should really revisit this topic later). We will assign fixed pixel values to our elements:

{% highlight HTML %}
html {
  font-size: 10px;
}
h1 {
  font-size: 32px;
}
{% endhighlight %}

First you can see we set the `font-size` for everything inside of the html element to a small `10px` (by default the browser uses 16px). All the elements on the inside will inherit this value, if they don’t have a different rule for their font size. As you can see, the h1 has a value of `32px` assigned, so the browser shows us a big heading while the p has the small text size without having any `font-size` property declared.
